# VoVNet-BiFPN-SOLO
code of VoVNet-BiFPN-SOLO

Due to the significant overlap and adhesion between the cells' translucent cytoplasm, it is challenging to solve instance segmentation problems of overlapping cells in smear images of Pap-stained epithelial cells. In this paper, an improved single-stage instance segmentation VoVNet-BiFPN-SOLO (VB-SOLO) network is proposed to address this problem. The model takes SOLOv2 model as the main frame, uses the optimized VoVNetv2 as the backbone network, and integrates the bi-directional feature pyramid network (BiFPN) to segment cell instances on the category branch and mask branch. Firstly, the backbone uses Efficient Channel Attention (ECA) to optimize the VoVNetv2 network to increase the information interaction across channels and enhance the extraction of cell instance features. Secondly, the BiFPN feature pyramid structure is introduced to connect with the new backbone. BiFPN can achieve the weighted fusion of features with different resolutions from bottom to top and keep more shallow semantic information in the network. Finally, the CBAM attention module was added to the mask branch in order to improve cell segmentation results in feature maps.

Previously reported [CISD] Dataset and code were used to support this study and are available at gitlab.com/vitadx/articles/zstacks_cell_instance_segmentation. These prior datasets are cited at relevant places within the text as Ref. [. Previously reported [Cx22] Dataset and code were used to support this study and are available at https://github.com/LGQ330/Cx22. These prior datasets are cited at relevant places within the text as Ref.  
